---
title: 20240702/french-election
published: 2024-07-02
updated: 2024-07-02T13:37:09+09:00
entry-id: tag:blog.hatena.ne.jp,2013:blog-Nisaki-6801883189054638642-6801883189118856617
author: Nisaki
edited: 2024-07-02T19:03:03+09:00
tags:
  - center
  - France
---
<p><iframe src="https://hatenablog-parts.com/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.project-syndicate.org%2Fcommentary%2Fwhy-macronism-failed-by-jan-werner-mueller-2024-07" title="Why Macronism Failed | by Jan-Werner Mueller - Project Syndicate" class="embed-card embed-webcard" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="
display: block; 
width: 100%; 
height: 155px; 
max-width: 500px; 
margin: 10px 0px;" loading="lazy"></iframe><cite class="hatena-citation"><a href="https://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/why-macronism-failed-by-jan-werner-mueller-2024-07">www.project-syndicate.org</a><br />Jan-Werner Müller.</cite></p>
<ul>
<li>
<blockquote>
<p>Macron appealed to both socialists and conservative Gaullists, on the assumption that all reasonable people could unite happily in the moderate middle. Anyone who rejected the invitation was, by definition, an unreasonable extremist. For a while, this approach had traction, because Macron’s seemingly ever-expanding center was flanked by Marine Le Pen’s National Front (now National Rally) on the far right and by the firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s France Unbowed on the far left. But the technocratic approach  E“if you’re not with us, you’re unreasonable E Eultimately failed to transform the political landscape.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li>
<blockquote>
<p>This matters, because Macron’s overwhelming support in the second round of the 2017 and 2022 elections  Ewhen he was facing off against Le Pen  Ewas largely due to voters Ehostility to the far right, not burgeoning enthusiasm for Macron-style technocracy.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li>
<blockquote>
<p>On the contrary, technocracy tends to provoke a backlash, because it creates an opportunity for populists to argue  Ereasonably  Ethat there are no uniquely rational solutions to complex problems, and that democracy is supposed to be about choice and popular participation, not elites decreeing that there is no alternative. Macron’s haughty style  Ealready in 2017, he let it be known that he wanted to rule like “Jupiter E Ecertainly did not help. Rightly or wrongly, it has made him an exceptionally hated political figure. But quite apart from the personal failings of a man who fancies himself a philosopher-king, a centrist project aimed at taking the best from the left and the right was always more likely to alienate both than to harmonize their contradictory agendas.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li>
<blockquote>
<p>Macron’s centrism not only looked increasingly authoritarian; it also acquired a rightward tilt. Hence, his hardline interior minister went so far as to accuse Le Pen of being soft on Islamism, and Borne introduced an immigration law that seemed to legitimize what the far right had been saying all along. If you are constantly tacking rightward, you eventually will reach a point where you can no longer blackmail voters with the argument that you are the only thing standing in the way of right-wing extremism and the end of the Republic.</p>
</blockquote>
</li>
<li>
<blockquote>
<p>Some commentators speculate that Macron wants the National Rally to govern until the 2027 presidential election, on the grounds that it will prove itself incompetent and set the stage for a triumphant shift back toward the center. But this kind of quasi-pedagogical project  Ewith the headmaster showing his pupils that the substitute teacher doesn’t know how to do the job  Eis misguided for several reasons.</p>
<p>For starters, not all far-right populists have overly simplistic policy ideas or are amateur administrators. And even in cases where they do show themselves to be incompetent, their fortunes can recover. When Austria’s Machiavellian Christian Democratic chancellor, Wolfgang Schüssel, brought Jörg Haider’s far-right Freedom Party into government in 2000, the populists did descend into infighting and revealed their incompetence and corruption. But after splitting up and licking its wounds, the Freedom Party sailed to victory in last month’s European elections.</p>
<p>Moreover, since the French system allows for “cohabitation E Ewhen the president and the prime minister belong to opposing parties  Ea governing party that appears incompetent can simply blame the other side for tying its hands. Wielding the extraordinary powers of the French presidency, Macron will doubtless find an outlet on the international stage. But it is sobering to see that his vision has been downgraded from a “revolution Ein 2017 to a “renaissance Ein 2022 to what it is today. Macron failed to transform the movement he started into a proper political party that is not dependent on a charismatic leader. His charisma gone, the center’s prospects for 2027 look bleak indeed.</p>
</blockquote>
<p> </p>
</li>
</ul>