---
title: 20250318/RRvoting-workers
published: 2025-03-18
updated: 2025-03-18T16:27:11+09:00

entry-id: tag:blog.hatena.ne.jp,2013:blog-Nisaki-6801883189054638642-6802418398337497773
author: Nisaki
edited: 2025-03-18T16:27:47+09:00
---

<p><iframe src="https://hatenablog-parts.com/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.illiberalism.org%2Fbiting-their-own-tails-class-politics-postmaterialism-and-europes-radical-right-workers%2F" title="Biting their own Tails: Class politics, Postmaterialism, and Europe’s Radical-right Workers illiberalism.org |" class="embed-card embed-webcard" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="display: block; width: 100%; height: 155px; max-width: 500px; margin: 10px 0px;" loading="lazy"></iframe><cite class="hatena-citation"><a href="https://www.illiberalism.org/biting-their-own-tails-class-politics-postmaterialism-and-europes-radical-right-workers/">www.illiberalism.org</a>  Miranda Thulin ().</cite></p>
<ul>
<li>"Several factors suggest that the radical-right economic agenda, though not free of ambiguity, can be classified as decidedly right-wing (in the Western European context, at least)."</li>
<li>"programmatically, politically, and (at least partially) sociologically, radical-right parties remain wedded to right-wing economic positions."
<ol>
<li>the European radical right remains notably more right-wing in its economic profile than the social-democratic party family—despite the latter’s significant turn to the right since the 1970s</li>
<li>radical-right parties tend to form government coalitions with the bourgeois right</li>
<li>apart from workers, a crucial support base of the radical right is self-employed, small business owners—a stratum known to be favorable to market liberalism and averse to redistributive politics and political intervention in the economy. If radical-right parties promote the interests of labor, they risk, as Eeco Harteveld sarcastically puts it, winning the “losers” and losing the “winners.”</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><span style="color: #d32f2f;">Postmaterialism may at the same time be seen as incited by, contributing to, and the outcome of the same external causes as past decades’ and general depoliticization (Burnham 2001). <span style="color: #000000;">(...) </span></span>In distracting from political economy, postmaterialism reinforces existing economic structures to the benefit of the capital-owning class.</li>
</ul>
<p> </p>
<p>childcare arrangements, welfare chauvinism (conditionality): immigrants, unemployed</p>
<ul>
<li>the “<span style="color: #d32f2f;">producerist</span>” objection against the fruits of labor being reaped by those who do not participate in productive work themselves—a charge that is now being put forward by right-wing populists against “bureaucrats” and “welfare abusers”—
<ul>
<li>Ivaldi, G., &amp; Mazzoleni, O. (2019). Economic populism and producerism: European right-wing populist parties in a transatlantic perspective. Populism, 2(1), 1-28.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>It should be kept in mind, then, that while conditionality might stem from the set of non-economic ideas conceptualized as TAN, it does have important economic-material implications.</li>
<li>Oorschot, W. v. (2000). Who should get what, and why? On deservingness criteria and the conditionality of solidarity among the public. <em>Policy &amp; Politics</em>, 28(1), 33-48. https://doi.org/10.1332/0305573002500811.</li>
</ul>
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Author's own research</span></p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The political-economic attitudes of workers sympathizing with the radical right were compared to those of social-democratic and left-wing workers on the one hand, and those of non-working-class supporters—that is, employers, the self-employed, managers, and others—of bourgeois, economically right-wing, parties on the other. These other groups were included as points of reference, their positions serving as empirical estimates of an economic “left” and “right.” </p>
</li>
<li>As revealed by responses to the survey questions on whether the state should take measures to reduce differences in income, whether differences in standards of living may be acceptable to reward “talents and efforts” (or not) and whether differences in income must be small for society to be fair, attitudinal differences between radical-right and social-democratic workers are <strong>negligible</strong>.</li>
<li>
<p><span style="color: #d32f2f;"><span style="color: #000000;">As hypothesized, the decisive difference between the two groups of workers is not that those drawn to the radical right are notably more right-wing in the economic sense.</span> It is not a rejection but a <em>deprioritization </em>of left-wing preferences that compels workers to support radical-right parties.</span> These findings hint at a dormant, widespread desire for political-economic change—and show that the real adversary of the radical right and its allies is not “woke ideology” but <span style="text-decoration: underline;">a radical re-politicization of the economy</span>.</p>
</li>
<li>Hence, the difference in political-economic attitudes between radical-right and social-democratic workers is not solely one of prioritization but also, in some respects, of content. (...) By this, I mean that although they are issues of an explicitly political-economic character, the radical-right workers’ opinion on them is influenced by their position on the non-material GAL-TAN dimension of conflict—by ethnonationalism, social conservatism or authoritarianism in general—not by their political-economic preferences (which, as the data shows, are no less left-wing than those of their social-democratic counterparts).</li>
<li>Rather than resolving the puzzle of the right-wing workers’ class interests and their party sympathies, the findings unveil yet another, internal tension: that between these workers’ desire for economic equality, on the one hand, and their aversion towards labor-strengthening policies on the other.
<ul>
<li>The discrepancy in wanting economic equality while at the same time rejecting certain of its means—the decommodifying mechanisms of the welfare state—is not merely a theoretical but a practical one. Across Europe, radical-right parties are engaging in bourgeois government coalitions to dismantle social protection, particularly for groups deemed undeserving—including workers who lost their jobs. Through its attack on the unemployed, the radical right undermines the material security of the working class, directly adding to its precarity.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>---</p>
<ul>
<li>「in defiance of」：「～を無視して」「～に逆らって」</li>
</ul>
