---
title: 20250318/Muller
published: 2025-03-18
updated: 2025-03-18T16:47:53+09:00

entry-id: tag:blog.hatena.ne.jp,2013:blog-Nisaki-6801883189054638642-6802418398337503388
author: Nisaki
edited: 2025-03-18T16:47:53+09:00
---

<p><iframe src="https://hatenablog-parts.com/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.project-syndicate.org%2Fcommentary%2Ftrump-napoleon-caesarism-analogy-ultimately-flawed-by-jan-werner-mueller-2025-03" title="America’s Grotesquely Mediocre Emperor | by Jan-Werner Mueller - Project Syndicate" class="embed-card embed-webcard" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="display: block; width: 100%; height: 155px; max-width: 500px; margin: 10px 0px;" loading="lazy"></iframe><cite class="hatena-citation"><a href="https://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/trump-napoleon-caesarism-analogy-ultimately-flawed-by-jan-werner-mueller-2025-03">www.project-syndicate.org</a> Jan-Werner Mueller.</cite></p>
<p> the Caesarism analogy</p>
<ul>
<li>But there were always limits to Napoleonic democracy. Both Napoleons relied not only on propaganda but also on the police, censoring criticism and clamping down on opposition. When they held plebiscites, the point was to demonstrate overwhelming popular support for something they were going to do anyway.</li>
<li>
<p>Napoleon has been called a modern “media emperor,” and both Napoleons relied on spreading the story of their improbable rise (Napoleon III’s surprise 1848 election, after several failed coups, eerily resembles Trump’s unlikely return to power). But they also sought to produce spectacular achievements to keep citizens enthralled. As Napoleon Bonaparte put it, “a new-born government like ours needs to amaze and astonish people, in order to consolidate itself, or it will go under.”</p>
</li>
<li> </li>
<li>
<p>Trump also has an architectural agenda. One of his lesser-noted day-one executive orders, “Promoting Beautiful Federal Civic Architecture,” calls for a return to federal buildings in the classical style (the result, if any, will be gilded McMansion-like edifices with “engraved concrete and foam columns wrapped in plastic,” one critic predicts). Similarly, Trump’s rhetoric about enlarging the US to include Canada and Greenland is reminiscent of the darkest days of nineteenth-century imperialism, when glory was equated with territorial expansion.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><iframe src="https://hatenablog-parts.com/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov%2Fpresidential-actions%2F2025%2F01%2Fpromoting-beautiful-federal-civic-architecture%2F" title="Promoting Beautiful Federal Civic Architecture" class="embed-card embed-webcard" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="display: block; width: 100%; height: 155px; max-width: 500px; margin: 10px 0px;" loading="lazy"></iframe></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://artnewsjapan.com/article/21553" target="_blank">トランプ大統領が政府庁舎の建築様式に関する大統領令に署名。「公共建築は古典的伝統に沿うべき」 | ARTnews JAPAN（アートニュースジャパン）</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://newspicks.com/news/11245012/body/" target="_blank">古典主義建築礼賛！トランプ大統領令「美しい連邦公共建築」で振り返るアメリカの建築</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://www3.nhk.or.jp/news/html/20250318/k10014752941000.html" target="_blank">トランプ大統領 理事長就任の文化施設視察 文化芸術に影響懸念 | NHK | トランプ大統領</a></p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>More to the point, <span style="color: #d32f2f;">Trump’s only real talent lies in exploiting our willingness to buy his image as a successful businessman</span>, even though his actual business career was a string of failures. In this regard, he resembles Napoleon III, a “grotesque mediocrity,” according to Karl Marx, who lived off a fantasy of grandeur. In his case, the fantasy proved popular enough to pull off what political scientists call an autogolpe (self-coup): a leader who comes to office legally using unlawful means to remain in power. Trump, having failed on January 6, 2021 in such an endeavor, might try again during his second administration.</p>
</li>
<li>Whereas both Napoleons managed to present themselves as figures who had transcended parties and classes with the breadth of their popular support, Trump is a militantly partisan Republican who is advancing his party’s goal of cutting taxes for the wealthy. Far from single-handedly dragging the US state into the future, his ally Elon Musk is wantonly sabotaging it. Where the Napoleons promised order and an end to revolutionary upheaval, Trump and his henchmen. apparently enthralled with the idea that “disruption” is good for some businesses, are purposefully sowing chaos.</li>
<li>Trump’s throwaway line about being above the law does not speak to Caesarist aspirations. It is nothing more – or less – than run-of-the-mill authoritarian rhetoric designed to legitimize violence. El Salvador’s autocratic leader, Nayib Bukele, has posted the same phrase, and it also appeared in the Norwegian mass murderer Anders Breivik’s manifesto. In the name of defending Europe against Islam, he killed 77 people in Oslo and on a nearby island in 2011. Et tu, MAGA?</li>
</ul>
<p>---</p>
<p><iframe src="https://hatenablog-parts.com/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwwnorton.com%2Fbooks%2F9781324074397" title="Did It Happen Here?" class="embed-card embed-webcard" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="display: block; width: 100%; height: 155px; max-width: 500px; margin: 10px 0px;" loading="lazy"></iframe><cite class="hatena-citation"><a href="https://wwnorton.com/books/9781324074397">wwnorton.com</a></cite></p>
